federalist number one
introduction by alexander hamilton
after full experience of the
insufficiency of the existing federal
government
you are invited to deliberate upon a new
constitution for the united states of
america
the subject speaks its own importance
comprehending in its consequence nothing
less than the existence of the union
the safety and welfare of the parts of
which it is composed
the fate of an empire in many respects
the most interesting in the world
it has been frequently remarked that it
seems to have been reserved to the
people of this country to decide by
their conduct and example the important
question whether societies of men are
really capable or not
of establishing good government from
reflection and choice or whether they
are forever destined to depend for their
political constitutions on accident and
force
if there be any truth in the remark the
crisis at which we are arrived may with
propriety be regarded as the period when
that decision is to be made
and a wrong election of the part we
shall act may in this view deserve to be
considered as the general misfortune of
mankind
this idea by adding the inducements of
philanthropy to those of patriotism
will heighten the solicitude which all
considerate and good men must feel for
the event
happy will it be if our choice should be
directed by a judicious estimate of our
true interests
uninfluenced by considerations foreign
to the public good
but this is more ardently to be wished
for than seriously to be expected
the plan offered to our deliberations
affects too many particular interests
innovates upon too many local
institutions not to involve
in its discussion a variety of objects
extraneous to its merits and of views
passions and prejudices little favorable
to the discovery of truth
among the most formidable of the
obstacles which the new constitution
will have to encounter
may readily distinguish the obvious
interest of a certain class of men in
every state to resist all changes which
may hazard a diminution of power
emolument and consequence of the offices
they hold under the state of
establishments
and the perverted ambition of another
class of men who will either hope to
aggrandize themselves by the confusions
of their country or will flatter
themselves with fairer prospects of
elevation from the subdivision of the
empire into several partial
confederacies than from its union under
one government
it is not however my design to dwell
upon observations of this nature
i am aware that it would be disingenuous
to resolve indiscriminately the
opposition of any set of men into
interested or ambitious views merely
because their situations might subject
them to suspicion
kander will oblige us to admit that even
such men may be actuated by upright
intentions
and it cannot be doubted that much of
the opposition which has already
shown itself or that may hereafter make
its appearance will spring from sources
blameless at least
if not respectable the honest errors of
minds led astray by preconceived
jealousies and fears
so numerous indeed and so powerful are
the causes which serve to give a false
bias to the judgment that we
upon many occasions see wise and good
men on the wrong as well as on the right
side of questions
of the first magnitude to society this
circumstance if dooley attended to
would always furnish a lesson of
moderation to those who are engaged in
any controversy however well persuaded
of being in the right
and a further reason for caution in this
respect might be drawn from the
reflection that we are not always sure
that those who advocate the truth are
actuated by purer principles than their
antagonists
ambition avarice personal animosity
party opposition and many other motives
not more laudable than these are apt to
operate as well upon those who support
as upon those who oppose the right side
of a question
were there not even these inducements to
moderation nothing could be more
ill-judged than that intolerant spirit
which has at all times characterized
political parties
for in politics as in religion it is
equally absurd to aim at making
proselytes by fire and
sword heresies and either can rarely be
cured by persecution
and yet just as these sentiments must
appear to candid men
we have already sufficient indications
that it will happen in this
as in all former cases of great national
discussion
a torrent of angry and malignant
passions will be let loose
to judge from the conduct of the
opposite parties we shall be led to
conclude that they will mutually hope to
evince the justness of their opinions
and to increase the number of their
converts
by the loudness of their declinations
and by the bitterness of their
invectives
an enlightened zeal for the energy and
efficiency of government will be
stigmatized as the offspring of a temper
fond of power and hostile to the
principles of liberty
an over-scrupulous jealousy of danger to
the rights of the people
which is more commonly the fault of the
head than of the heart will be
represented as mere pretense and
artifice
the stale bait for popularity at the
expense of the public good
it will be forgotten on the one hand
that jealousy is the usual concomitant
of violent love
and that the noble enthusiasm of liberty
is too apt to be infected with a spirit
of narrow and a liberal distrust
on the other hand it will be equally
forgotten that the vigor of government
is essential to the security of liberty
that in the contemplation of a sound and
well-informed judgment their interests
can never be separated
and that a dangerous ambition more often
lurks behind the specious mask of zeal
for the rights of the people
than under the forbidding appearances of
zeal for the firmness and efficiency of
government
history will teach us that the former
has been found a much more certain road
to the introduction of despotism than
the latter
and that of those men who have
overturned the liberties of republics
the greatest number have begun their
career by paying an obsequious court to
the people
commencing demagogues and ending tyrants
in the course of the preceding
observations it has been my aim fellow
citizens to put you upon your guard
against all attempts from whatever
quarter to influence your decision in a
matter of the utmost moment to your
welfare by any impressions other than
those which may result from the evidence
of truth
you will no doubt at the same time have
collected from the general scope of them
that they proceed from a source not
unfriendly to the new constitution
yes my countrymen i own to you that
after having given it an attempt of
consideration i am clearly of opinion
it is your interest to adopt it i am
convinced that this is the safest course
for your liberty
your dignity and your happiness i affect
not reserves which i do not feel
i will not amuse you with an appearance
of deliberation when i have decided
i frankly acknowledge to you my
convictions and i will freely lay before
you the reasons on which they are
founded
the consciousness of good intentions
disdains ambiguity i shall not however
multiply professions on this head
my motives must remain in the depository
of my own breast
my arguments will be open to all and may
be judged of by all
they shall at least be offered in a
spirit which will not disgrace the cause
of truth
i propose in a series of papers to
discuss the following interesting
particulars
the utility of the union to your
political prosperity
the insufficiency of the present
confederation to preserve that union
the necessity of a government at least
equally energetic with the one proposed
to the attainment of this object the
conformity of the proposed constitution
to your true principles of republican
government
its analogy to your own state
constitution and lastly
the additional security which its
adoption will afford to the preservation
of that species of government to liberty
and to property in the progress of this
discussion i shall endeavor to give a
satisfactory answer to all the
objections which shall have made their
appearance that may seem to have any
claim to attention
it may perhaps be thought superfluous to
offer arguments to prove the utility of
the union
a point no doubt deeply engraved on the
hearts of the great body of the people
in every state
and one which it may be imagined has no
adversaries
but the fact is that we already hear it
whispered in the private circles of
those who oppose the new constitution
that the 13 states are of too great
extent for any general system
and that we must of necessity resort to
separate confederacies of distinct
portions of the whole
this doctrine will in all probability be
gradually propagated till it has voters
enough to countenance its opener vowel
for nothing can be more evident to those
who are able to take an enlarged view of
the subject than the alternative of an
adoption to the constitution or a
dismemberment of the union
it may therefore be essential to examine
particularly the advantages of that
union
the certain evils and the probable
dangers to which every state will be
exposed from its dissolution
this shall accordingly be done publius